.TH QHW_SCHEDULER 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_scheduler \- QPU-local scheduler library overview
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qhw-scheduler
is a QPU-local scheduler library. One scheduler instance manages one QPU
execution target. A caller creates a QPU profile, creates a scheduler, loads a
policy plugin, selects a policy, submits task descriptors, asks for the next
task, and reports lifecycle events.
.PP
The scheduler owns task state, lifecycle state, QPU runtime counters, the
active policy, and the loaded policy registry. The scheduler does not parse
task payloads. The payload pointer in a task descriptor is an opaque reference
owned by the caller.
.PP
The current standard policy plugins are:
.TP
.B fifo
Preserves insertion order.
.TP
.B priority
Selects highest priority, then oldest ready task.
.TP
.B ordered
Composes ordering keys such as priority, SJF, LJF, and FIFO.
.TP
.B round_robin
Rotates between reservation, job, or singleton task groups.
.SH BASIC FLOW
.nf
qhw_sched_qpu_create(&profile, &qpu);
qhw_sched_create(NULL, NULL, qpu, NULL, 0, &sched);
qhw_sched_load_plugin(sched, "/path/to/qhw_sched_ordered.so");
qhw_sched_set_policy(sched, "ordered", options, option_count);
qhw_sched_submit_task(sched, &task);
qhw_sched_select_next(sched, &assignment);
qhw_sched_task_started(sched, assignment.task_id);
qhw_sched_task_completed(sched, assignment.task_id);
qhw_sched_destroy(sched);
qhw_sched_qpu_destroy(qpu);
.fi
.SH THREADING
Schedulers are created in either
.B QHW_SCHED_THREAD_SAFE
or
.B QHW_SCHED_THREAD_USER
mode. Thread-safe mode protects internal state. User-threaded mode expects the
caller to serialize access to the scheduler instance.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Most functions return
.B qhw_sched_rc_t.
Successful calls return
.B QHW_SCHED_OK.
Common errors include
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NO_MEMORY,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NOT_FOUND,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_EXISTS,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_PLUGIN,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_UNSUPPORTED,
and
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_STATE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_sched_qpu (3),
.BR qhw_sched_create (3),
.BR qhw_sched_policy (3),
.BR qhw_sched_task (3),
.BR qhw_sched_callbacks (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
