.TH QHW_SCHED_CALLBACKS 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_set_callbacks \- install runtime callbacks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_set_callbacks(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	const qhw_sched_callbacks_t *callbacks);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR qhw_sched_set_callbacks ()
installs callback functions used by the scheduler core. Passing
.B NULL
clears the callback table.
.PP
The
.B split_task
callback is called when the active policy and QPU metadata require a submitted
task to be expanded into child tasks. The callback receives the parent task, a
split configuration, an array of child descriptors to populate, the child
count, and the caller's user data pointer.
.PP
The callback must assign unique nonzero task IDs to child tasks. Child tasks
should point back to the parent payload rather than copying large payload
buffers. The core validates parent IDs, slice metadata, child count, and shot
accounting before it queues the children.
.PP
The
.B estimate_cost
callback computes the cached cost used by SJF, LJF, and ordered cost keys. The
core calls it before an unsliced task enters the policy queue. For sliced work,
the core calls it once for each child after
.B split_task
returns. When registered, the callback return value is authoritative.
.SH SPLIT CALLBACK TYPE
.nf
typedef qhw_sched_rc_t (*qhw_sched_split_task_fn)(
	const qhw_sched_task_desc_t *task,
	const qhw_sched_split_config_t *config,
	qhw_sched_task_desc_t *children,
	size_t child_count,
	void *user_data);
.fi
.SH COST CALLBACK TYPE
.nf
typedef qhw_sched_rc_t (*qhw_sched_estimate_cost_fn)(
	const qhw_sched_task_desc_t *task,
	const qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t *qpu,
	uint64_t *out_cost,
	void *user_data);
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
static qhw_sched_rc_t split_task(
	const qhw_sched_task_desc_t *task,
	const qhw_sched_split_config_t *config,
	qhw_sched_task_desc_t *children,
	size_t child_count,
	void *user_data)
{
	size_t i;

	(void)user_data;
	for (i = 0; i < child_count; i++) {
		children[i] = *task;
		children[i].task_id = task->task_id * 1000 + i + 1;
		children[i].parent_task_id = task->task_id;
	}

	return QHW_SCHED_OK;
}

static qhw_sched_rc_t estimate_cost(
	const qhw_sched_task_desc_t *task,
	const qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t *qpu,
	uint64_t *out_cost,
	void *user_data)
{
	(void)qpu;
	(void)user_data;
	*out_cost = task->estimated_runtime_ns;
	if (*out_cost == 0)
		*out_cost = 1;
	return QHW_SCHED_OK;
}

qhw_sched_callbacks_t callbacks = {
	.struct_size = sizeof(callbacks),
	.split_task = split_task,
	.estimate_cost = estimate_cost
};

qhw_sched_set_callbacks(sched, &callbacks);
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
.BR qhw_sched_set_callbacks ()
returns
.B QHW_SCHED_OK
on success or
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG
for invalid arguments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_task (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
