.TH QHW_SCHED_POLICY 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_load_plugin, qhw_sched_list_policies,
qhw_sched_free_policy_info_array, qhw_sched_set_policy \- manage scheduler policies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_load_plugin(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	const char *shared_object_path);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_list_policies(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_policy_info_t **out_policies,
	size_t *out_count);

void qhw_sched_free_policy_info_array(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_policy_info_t *policies);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_set_policy(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	const char *policy_name,
	const qhw_sched_kv_t *options,
	size_t option_count);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Policies are loaded from shared-object plugins. A scheduler can load multiple
policy plugins, but only one policy is active at a time.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_load_plugin ()
loads a shared object, finds its
.B qhw_sched_plugin_descriptor
symbol, validates the descriptor, and registers the policy name with the
scheduler. Loading a second plugin with the same policy name returns
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_EXISTS.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_list_policies ()
returns a scheduler-allocated array describing the policies loaded in the
scheduler. Release the array with
.BR qhw_sched_free_policy_info_array ().
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_set_policy ()
initializes the named policy with the supplied options. Queued tasks are
replayed into the new policy. Assigned, running, waiting, and terminal tasks
remain in core scheduler state and are not replayed into the ready queue.
.SH ORDERED POLICY OPTIONS
The
.B ordered
policy accepts repeated
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_ORDER_KEY
options. The order of the options defines the comparison order.
.PP
Common combinations include:
.TP
.B priority,fifo
Highest priority first, FIFO among equal priorities.
.TP
.B sjf,fifo
Shortest estimated cost first, FIFO among equal costs.
.TP
.B ljf,fifo
Longest estimated cost first, FIFO among equal costs.
.TP
.B priority,sjf,fifo
Highest priority first, shortest estimated cost among equal priorities, then
FIFO.
.TP
.B sjf,round_robin,fifo
Shortest estimated cost first, then rotate between reservation, job, or
singleton task groups among equal costs.
.TP
.B ljf,round_robin,fifo
Longest estimated cost first, then rotate between reservation, job, or
singleton task groups among equal costs.
.PP
Estimated cost is cached before each runnable task enters the policy queue.
When registered, the runtime cost callback is authoritative. Otherwise, the
cost source is explicit task cost, runtime-estimate fields, estimated-runtime
metadata, shots metadata, or unit fallback.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
qhw_sched_kv_t options[] = {
	{
		.key = QHW_SCHED_OPT_ORDER_KEY,
		.type = QHW_SCHED_VALUE_U64,
		.value.u64 = QHW_SCHED_ORDER_PRIORITY
	},
	{
		.key = QHW_SCHED_OPT_ORDER_KEY,
		.type = QHW_SCHED_VALUE_U64,
		.value.u64 = QHW_SCHED_ORDER_SJF
	},
	{
		.key = QHW_SCHED_OPT_ORDER_KEY,
		.type = QHW_SCHED_VALUE_U64,
		.value.u64 = QHW_SCHED_ORDER_FIFO
	}
};

qhw_sched_load_plugin(sched,
	"./install/lib/qhw_scheduler/plugins/qhw_sched_ordered.so");
qhw_sched_set_policy(sched, "ordered", options,
	sizeof(options) / sizeof(options[0]));
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
Policy functions return
.B QHW_SCHED_OK
on success. Common failures include
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NOT_FOUND,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_EXISTS,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NO_MEMORY,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_PLUGIN,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_UNSUPPORTED,
and
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_STATE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_create (3),
.BR qhw_sched_task (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
