.TH QHW_SCHED_CREATE 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_create, qhw_sched_destroy, qhw_sched_get_threading,
qhw_sched_last_error \- create and inspect scheduler instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_create(
	const char *policy_name,
	const qhw_sched_attr_t *attr,
	qhw_sched_qpu_t *qpu,
	const qhw_sched_kv_t *options,
	size_t option_count,
	qhw_sched_t **out_sched);

void qhw_sched_destroy(qhw_sched_t *sched);

qhw_sched_threading_t qhw_sched_get_threading(qhw_sched_t *sched);

const char *qhw_sched_last_error(qhw_sched_t *sched);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR qhw_sched_create ()
creates one scheduler instance for one QPU execution target. The scheduler
retains the QPU handle, initializes the task table, and prepares the plugin
registry.
.PP
The current C binding expects
.I policy_name
to be
.B NULL
and
.I option_count
to be zero. Load a plugin with
.BR qhw_sched_load_plugin (3)
and select the policy with
.BR qhw_sched_set_policy (3)
after creation.
.PP
The
.I attr
argument is optional. A null attribute selects the default thread-safe mode and
the default allocator. Set
.I attr->threading
to
.B QHW_SCHED_THREAD_USER
when the caller serializes access to the scheduler and wants lower locking
overhead.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_destroy ()
frees scheduler-owned state, unloads registered plugins, releases the QPU
reference held by the scheduler, and destroys the scheduler handle.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_get_threading ()
returns the scheduler threading mode.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_last_error ()
returns a diagnostic string. It is most useful after plugin load failures.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
qhw_sched_attr_t attr = {
	.struct_size = sizeof(attr),
	.threading = QHW_SCHED_THREAD_SAFE
};
qhw_sched_t *sched = NULL;

rc = qhw_sched_create(NULL, &attr, qpu, NULL, 0, &sched);
if (rc != QHW_SCHED_OK)
	return 1;

qhw_sched_destroy(sched);
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
.BR qhw_sched_create ()
returns
.B QHW_SCHED_OK
on success. It may return
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NO_MEMORY,
or
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_UNSUPPORTED.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_get_threading ()
returns zero when passed a null scheduler handle.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_qpu (3),
.BR qhw_sched_policy (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
