.TH QHW_SCHED_TASK 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_submit_task, qhw_sched_select_next,
qhw_sched_task_update_priority, qhw_sched_task_started,
qhw_sched_task_completed, qhw_sched_task_failed,
qhw_sched_task_cancelled, qhw_sched_task_get_state,
qhw_sched_task_count \- submit and advance scheduler tasks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_submit_task(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	const qhw_sched_task_desc_t *task);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_select_next(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_assignment_t *out_assignment);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_update_priority(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id,
	int64_t priority);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_started(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_completed(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_failed(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_cancelled(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_task_get_state(
	qhw_sched_t *sched,
	qhw_sched_task_id_t task_id,
	qhw_sched_task_state_t *out_state);

size_t qhw_sched_task_count(qhw_sched_t *sched);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR qhw_sched_submit_task ()
copies task metadata and inserts one task into the scheduler. The task ID must
be nonzero and unique in the scheduler instance. The payload pointer remains
caller-managed and opaque to the scheduler.
.PP
Before a runnable task enters the policy queue, the scheduler caches its cost.
When a cost callback is registered, its return value is authoritative.
Otherwise, cost can come from the descriptor, runtime estimate fields,
metadata, or unit fallback.
.PP
When slicing is active, submission invokes the registered split callback. The
core stores the parent task in
.B QHW_SCHED_TASK_WAITING
state and queues the generated child tasks.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_select_next ()
asks the active policy for the next queued task. A successful selection returns
an assignment and moves the selected task to
.B QHW_SCHED_TASK_ASSIGNED.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_task_started ()
moves an assigned task to
.B QHW_SCHED_TASK_RUNNING.
When no policy is active, the implementation also permits directly starting a
queued task.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_task_completed (),
.BR qhw_sched_task_failed (),
and
.BR qhw_sched_task_cancelled ()
move a non-terminal task to a terminal state and update QPU runtime counters.
Completion requires a running task. Failure and cancellation may apply to any
non-terminal task except a waiting parent.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_task_update_priority ()
updates the priority of a queued task. The active policy is notified so it can
reorder its ready queue.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_task_get_state ()
returns the current lifecycle state for a task.
.BR qhw_sched_task_count ()
returns the number of task records owned by the scheduler.
.SH LIFECYCLE
.nf
QUEUED -> ASSIGNED -> RUNNING -> COMPLETED
QUEUED -> ASSIGNED -> RUNNING -> FAILED
QUEUED -> CANCELLED
ASSIGNED -> CANCELLED
RUNNING -> CANCELLED
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
qhw_sched_task_desc_t task = {
	.struct_size = sizeof(task),
	.task_id = 42,
	.owner_id = 1000,
	.job_id = 7,
	.priority = 10,
	.estimated_runtime_ns = 5000000,
	.estimated_cost = 5000000
};
qhw_sched_assignment_t assignment;

qhw_sched_submit_task(sched, &task);
qhw_sched_select_next(sched, &assignment);
qhw_sched_task_started(sched, assignment.task_id);
qhw_sched_task_completed(sched, assignment.task_id);
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
Task operations return
.B QHW_SCHED_OK
on success. Common failures include
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NO_MEMORY,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NOT_FOUND,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_EXISTS,
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_UNSUPPORTED,
and
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_STATE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_policy (3),
.BR qhw_sched_callbacks (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
