.TH QHW_SCHED_QPU 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_qpu_create, qhw_sched_qpu_destroy,
qhw_sched_qpu_get_profile, qhw_sched_qpu_get_runtime \- manage QPU execution targets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler.h>

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_qpu_create(
	const qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t *profile,
	qhw_sched_qpu_t **out_qpu);

void qhw_sched_qpu_destroy(qhw_sched_qpu_t *qpu);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_qpu_get_profile(
	qhw_sched_qpu_t *qpu,
	qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t *out_profile);

qhw_sched_rc_t qhw_sched_qpu_get_runtime(
	qhw_sched_qpu_t *qpu,
	qhw_sched_qpu_runtime_t *out_runtime);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A QPU object describes the execution target managed by one scheduler instance.
The target may be a physical QPU or a partition exposed as a QPU-like
execution target by a higher layer.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_create ()
copies the supplied profile, initializes runtime counters, and returns a QPU
handle. The
.I qpu_id
field must be nonzero. Profile metadata is copied into scheduler-owned memory.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_destroy ()
releases one reference to a QPU handle. A scheduler retains the QPU passed to
.BR qhw_sched_create (3),
so callers may destroy their own QPU handle after the scheduler is created if
they no longer need direct QPU queries.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_get_profile ()
returns the stored QPU profile. The returned metadata pointer is owned by the
QPU object and remains valid while that object is alive.
.PP
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_get_runtime ()
returns a snapshot of runtime counters. The snapshot includes queued,
completed, failed, cancelled, and running-task state.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t profile = {
	.struct_size = sizeof(profile),
	.qpu_id = 1,
	.num_qubits = 20
};
qhw_sched_qpu_runtime_t runtime = {
	.struct_size = sizeof(runtime)
};
qhw_sched_qpu_t *qpu = NULL;

if (qhw_sched_qpu_create(&profile, &qpu) != QHW_SCHED_OK)
	return 1;

qhw_sched_qpu_get_runtime(qpu, &runtime);
qhw_sched_qpu_destroy(qpu);
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_create (),
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_get_profile (),
and
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_get_runtime ()
return
.B QHW_SCHED_OK
on success. They return
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_INVALID_ARG
for invalid handles, output pointers, or malformed profiles.
.BR qhw_sched_qpu_create ()
may also return
.B QHW_SCHED_ERR_NO_MEMORY.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_create (3),
.BR qhw_sched_types (3)
