.TH QHW_SCHED_TYPES 3 "2026-07-02" "qhw-scheduler" "qhw-scheduler manual"
.SH NAME
qhw_sched_types \- public qhw-scheduler data structures and keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <qhw_scheduler/qhw_scheduler_types.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The public scheduler ABI uses value structs for input descriptors, output
snapshots, options, metadata, callbacks, and policy information. Long-lived
objects use opaque handles documented in
.BR qhw_sched_qpu (3)
and
.BR qhw_sched_create (3).
.SH IMPORTANT TYPES
.TP
.B qhw_sched_attr_t
Scheduler creation attributes. It selects threading mode and optional allocator
hooks.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_allocator_t
Allocator callback table. Use it when scheduler allocations need to come from a
caller-managed allocator.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_kv_t
Typed numeric-key value used for metadata and policy options.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_qpu_profile_t
Static profile for one QPU execution target. It includes QPU ID, qubit count,
flags, and metadata.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_qpu_runtime_t
Runtime counter snapshot. It includes queued, completed, failed, cancelled,
and running task counters.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_task_desc_t
Task envelope submitted to the scheduler. It carries task identity,
correlation IDs, priority, deadline, runtime estimate, payload reference, and
metadata.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_assignment_t
Selected task returned by
.BR qhw_sched_select_next (3).
It includes task ID, parent ID, slice information, payload reference, and
runtime estimate.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_split_config_t
Submission-time slicing configuration passed to split callbacks.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_callbacks_t
Runtime callback table. The current callback is
.B split_task.
.TP
.B qhw_sched_policy_info_t
Policy discovery record returned by
.BR qhw_sched_list_policies (3).
.SH BUILT-IN METADATA KEYS
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_SHOTS
Requested shot count.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_DEPTH
Circuit or task depth estimate.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_NUM_QUBITS
Number of qubits used by the task.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_TWO_QUBIT_GATES
Number of two-qubit gates.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_ESTIMATED_RUNTIME_NS
Estimated runtime in nanoseconds.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_DEVICE_NAME
Device-name metadata.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_PROVIDER
Provider metadata.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_PARENT_TASK_ID
Parent task ID for split work.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_SLICE_INDEX
Slice index for split work.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_SLICE_COUNT
Total slice count for split work.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_REQUESTED_SHOTS
Original requested shot count.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_CHILD_TASK_COUNT
Number of children produced by slicing.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_META_MAX_SHOTS
Maximum shot count metadata.
.SH POLICY OPTION KEYS
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_ORDER_KEY
Adds one ordered-policy comparison key. Repeat the option to compose keys.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_SLICE_SHOT_THRESHOLD
Shot threshold above which slicing may occur.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_SLICE_MAX_SHOTS
Maximum shots per child task.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_SLICE_MIN_REMAINDER_SHOTS
Small remainder control for future slicing behavior.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_SLICE_MAX_CHILDREN
Maximum number of child tasks.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_BOOST_ENABLE
Enable deadline-based priority boosting.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_NOW_NS
Static current time used for controlled deadline calculations.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_NORMAL_THRESHOLD
Normal deadline urgency threshold.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_URGENT_THRESHOLD
Urgent deadline threshold.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_CRITICAL_THRESHOLD
Critical deadline threshold.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_NORMAL_BOOST
Priority boost for normal urgency.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_URGENT_BOOST
Priority boost for urgent tasks.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_OPT_DEADLINE_CRITICAL_BOOST
Priority boost for critical tasks.
.SH ORDERED POLICY KEYS
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_ORDER_PRIORITY
Higher effective priority first.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_ORDER_SJF
Lower estimated cost first.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_ORDER_LJF
Higher estimated cost first.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_ORDER_FIFO
Older ready-task insertion sequence first.
.TP
.B QHW_SCHED_ORDER_ROUND_ROBIN
Rotate reservation, job, or singleton task groups when earlier keys tie.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qhw_scheduler (3),
.BR qhw_sched_qpu (3),
.BR qhw_sched_create (3),
.BR qhw_sched_policy (3),
.BR qhw_sched_task (3),
.BR qhw_sched_callbacks (3)
